---
sidebar_position: 3
title: 1. Terminology
---


# 1. Terminology
### 1)	Virtual Reality (VR)
&nbsp&nbsp  “Virtual Reality is a simulated experience that can be similar to or completely different from the real world. It also refers to the technology itself. The artificial environment and atmosphere create a spatial and temporal experience which stimulates the user’s senses to dive freely into the boundary between reality and the creative world (Korean Wikipedia, 2020).

 “Virtual reality includes a general computing environment, but recently, it also refers to VR Head-mounted Display (HMD that senses head movements and shows fixed space. VR HMD generally divides into two technologies: 3Dof orients lean-back contents and 6Dof orients lean-forward contents that immerse the user to move around where users can view such contents as lean-back media.

<br/>

### 2)	Comics

&nbsp&nbsp  “Comics refers to a work expressed through drawings, pictures, and characters by processing the real or imaginary world in one or more divided spaces, drawn on tangible objects such as paper or contained in digital media such as disk (Manhwa Promotion Act Article 2, No.1).”

 Comics, a division of visual art, expresses thoughts by combining text and pictures in speech balloons or subtitles. It first began with a caricature to provide entertainment through simple stories, but now it has developed into an art medium with many sub-genres. The form of comics consists of panels of pictures connected side by side. Speech balloons, short commentary, and onomatopoeia are used to express dialogue, narrative, sound effects, and other information. The arrangement and size of those panels control the flow of description. Cartoons and illustrations are the most common means of image production used in comics. Photo novel is a form of using photographic pictures. Common forms of comics include serial comics, current affairs reviews, and comic books. In the 20th century, combined editions of graphic novels, comic albums, and books became more common; and in the 21st century, webcomics on the Internet (Web Comics) spread (Korean Wikipedia, 2020).

<br/>

### 3)	Webtoon
&nbsp&nbsp   Webtoon was first coined when Chollian, an online portal site, first began publishing online comics on August 8, 2000 and named their service Chollian Webtoon which combined words web—the internet protocol technology—and cartoon. Webtoon is fairly similar to Webcomic, however their main differences are that generally webtoon updates vertical scroll format whereas webcomic updates by pages and chapters.

 “Webtoons are a type of digital comic that originated in South Korea. While webtoons were mostly unknown outside of the country during their inception, there has been a surge in popularity internationally thanks in great part to most manhwa being read on smartphones (Wikipedia, 2020).”

<br/>

### 4)	Comics Intellectual Property (IP)
&nbsp&nbsp  Comics are legally protected by their respective intellectual property rights. Its copyright includes both the image and story: character designs, character stories, and its worldview

<br/>

### 5)	Virtual Reality (VR) Toon
&nbsp&nbsp  VR Toon refers to comics created with VR technology and any other content that combines the characteristics of VR technology—immersion, interaction, and imagination and comics IP. 

<br/>

### 6)	Virtual Reality (VR) Webtoon
 &nbsp&nbsp  Virtual Reality (VR) webtoon, though there is no social consensus on the term, refers to VR comics combined with web technology. The term VR reminds of HMD, but since standard activities to supply VR on the web continues; thus, it can be defined as comics utilizing VR. It also can be defined as Korean VR comics because the term webtoon generally refers to Korean digital comics and platforms.

Just as the term VR covers vast ranges, so does VR webtoon. Some view VR should provide 6Dof, full immersion, and interaction. But we define VR webtoon as all comics that provide 3Dof, including optimized VR HMD. 
