## 6.2.1. VR Webtoon Format

The manuscript includes these three files: image, sound file, and onomatopoeia (written sound effects) compressed into a single zip file.

<이미지>

**1)  360 Image Files**
> Save each equirectangular scenes in number sequences as JPEG.  
> ex) 1.jpg, 2.jpg, 3.jpg

**2) Sound Files**
> Save audio files as MP3 and name each file how it is played and which scene it is played in.  
> ex) o-2.mp3, i-1-3.mp3

**3) Effect Files**
>  A text file that states the effect for each scene.  
> ex) effect.txt

## 6.2.2. Sound Effects

Since, explanations on 360-degree images are detailed in **_4. How to Create 360-Degree Images used in VR Webtoon_**, we have only added guides for sounds and effects.

### 1. Sound
Use resources from [Freesound](https://freesound.org/) or other portal sites.

* Format : **mp3 or mp4**
* File name format : _Playing Type-Beginning scene’s number-Last scene’s number_
(Playing Types ▶︎ i : Infinite Repetition, o : Repeat Once)

**1) Example of naming music or sound effect files**

* Follow the steps below that shows one sound effect in a scene.

> Ex) Background music in the first scene to the fourth : i-1-4.mp3
       Sound effect in the fifth scene : o-5.mp4

* If there are more than one identical sound effect in several scenes, insert a hyphen symbol and then a number. The number begins from one.

> Ex) If you are using #1-3 sound effects in the first scene to the third
       : i-1-3-1.mp3, i-1-3-2.mp3, i-1-3-3.mp3

** Do not insert number one for the first scene with the title, because currently an error occurs on the web when a file name has ‘1’ in it.

** Do not insert more than two sound files per scene. An error may occur. If necessary, edit effect files and combine them into one file.

### 2. Effect files (effect.txt)
**Effect files inserted in each scene functions for compelling storytelling.**

Create an effect.txt, type in the effect you want, and then insert scene numbers where it will be applied.

> Ex) EyeSightDirectionInit=2,14,17,20,24,25,31,44

The example above will reset user’s viewpoint in pages: 2, 14, 17, 20, 24, 25, 31, and 44.

After turning to the next page, it is easy to lose viewpoint when the image is not at the same place. This is why you need such effects to reset the view to the front when turned to the next page.

<이미지>

However, there are times when you should not use the effect file.

<이미지>

<이미지>

_Snowmen_, for example, does not change the background but the action of the character and word bubbles only changes. At the first scene when you look at the snowman on the right, and then continuing on to the next page, and your viewpoint suddenly resets to the center becomes annoying. To prevent such happening it is better not to use the effect in this case.

> Further effects will be added in the future.

## 6.2.3. Basic Account

### Anyone can upload not only VR illustration but also VR webtoon manusctipts on COMIXV.

> 1) Go to [COMIXV](https://comixv.com/login) and Register In if you don’t have an account.

<이미지>

> 2) After logging in, click **_Create VR webtoon_** on the menu.

<이미지>

> 3) Click **_Add New Artwork_** on the VR webtoon tab.

<이미지>

> 4) Fill the form with basic information of your project.

<이미지>

> 5) Go to your project page and click **_Upload your artwork_** to add new episodes.

<이미지>

> 6) Insert the episode title and upload your manuscript file. Check the file size by clicking the **_Manuscript File Format Guide_** below the pop-up screen.

<이미지>  
<이미지>

> Click on Create Project and you will see that a new episode has been added.

<이미지>

* **There is a limit of 3 uploads per day for artwork-home and episodes.**


