 Creating equirectangular images in VR webtoon requires various editing software and tools like general comics. We have listed useful tools and how to use them.

## 4.4.1.	Flexify
: You first need Photoshop and the Flexify filter to begin. Flexify is a Photoshop plug-in supporting the mutual conversion of equirectangular and cubic images.

▶︎Download Link : https://comixv.files.wordpress.com/2017/07/flexify.zip


#### 1) How to install on Windows
- After uncompressing the attached <i>**flexify-win-latest.zip**</i> file, copy and paste the whole file into the following folder: **“C:/Program Files/Adobe/Adobe Photoshop/plug-ins”**

<br/>

#### 2) How to install on MAC
- Install the attached <i>**flexify-mac-latest.dmg**</i> in the **“Applications/Adobe Photoshop/plug-ins”** folder.

<br/>

#### 3) (Common) Installation Confirmation
- After installation, run Photoshop and check if <i>Flexify</i> has been installed. **“Filter > Flaming Pear > Flexify 2”** 

<br/>

#### 4) How to apply Flexify filter
1. Click <i>Flexify 2</i> after running Photoshop. Go to **"Filter > Flaming Pear > Flexify 2"**.

2.  Convert after changing from “Input -> horizontal cross / Output -> equirectangular”. If the layer is transparent and cannot be seen well, uncheck “Transparent gaps”.

3. 
After correcting detail values such as latitude and longitude, press the OK button to change the image to an equilateral square (360) image.

<br/>

#### 5) Flexify -Modifying Upper and Lower Angle-
You can modify the upper and lower angle of an isometric image by using a Flexify filter to intentionally direct a desired angle or even treat areas with severe vertical distortion.

Original

<br/>

## 4.4.2. Editing with <i>Photoshop 3D Workspace</i> 
&nbsp Latest versions after Photoshop CC 2018, supports editing equirectangular images. This material is replaced by the material—http://enow.co.kr/221260666536. We will redistribute the file later.
-	Go to [3D] – [Spherical Panorama] and click [New Panorama Layer From Selected Layer].

(이미지)

-	It automatically converts to 3D workspace. When dragging the task pane with the Move Tool selected, you can check 360 degrees in any direction and apply most of Photoshop's functions.

(이미지)

- When you’re finished with your project, select “Background” layer. Now, go to [3D] – [Spherical Panorama] – and click [Export Panorama] to save your work in equirectangular format.

<br/>

## 4.4.3. SketchUp + V-ray
SketchUp is most commonly used to produce 3D webtoon backgrounds. And it can also be used to create VR webtoons.

1.	Creating in V-Ray
( https://www.chaosgroup.com/kr )

1) Download SketchUp and V-Ray. Open a SketchUp file to render in 360-degree.

2) Three windows pop up when V-Ray installation completes. You will use V-Ray for Sketchup for rendering. To begin, click on the sphere shape at the far left of the screen. 

3) Once the eye icon is created, select a place to render and double-click.

4) After pressing the sphere button, put over the appropriate “.vrmat” on your project.
(Below 'Toon' format is applied for rendering so that the background color is all removed and only lines remain. You can put on other ".vrmat" and render it according to your drawing style.)
  
5) “Camera – Type – VR Spherical Panorama” renders images into 360-degree. So please make sure to change it.

6) This operation removes the background color and changes all values such as Background and Override Color to white. (For effects other than "Toon.vrmat", take time to adjust)

7)	Go back to the first menu and select "Toon" with the right mouse button. Go to "Apply To Layer -> Layer0" to overwrite all the backgrounds with the Toon layer then, click the kettle icon to render.
(If you want to give a different background effect, select the “.vrmat” effect instead of “Toon.vrmat”, then apply the effect using Apply To Layer -> Layer0 and finish rendering)

<br/>

## 4.4.4. 360-Degree Camera and Tracing
 You can create a VR webtoon background by taking a 360-degree background using the same 360-degree camera as the Gear 360 camera, and tracing photo images. Prices range from 80,000 won to millions of won for the premium.

 The following site--https://pixexid.com/search/360%20panorama provides 360 photos for free. We plan to secure a partnership with COMIXV.

## 4.4.5. FSP Viewer
Before uploading your project on COMIXV, use 'FSP Viewer' to preview them.
(Click on “FSP Viewr” above to download)

1) Click “File”.

2) Click “Open”.
 
3) Select an image to view.

4) Click “Open”.

 


